.How do you recommend other social enterprise founders pitch their startups to Australian tech investors? We're infamous for being focused on revenue over user growth, on profit over social impact or brand values..Never take the clock necklace off.."Start small" is easy. "Move fast" is the hard bit. I like Turnbull and Roy's readiness to admit that some of what they're proposing for the startup industry is a first attempt. They're embracing risk and saying, "we won't get it right the first time but it's important that we start, and as long as we're able to iterate and learn from experience, support programs will get better".

It may not have been sold as such, but this is an iteration — they tested $8M, heard us say it wasn't enough, and they've added more. They rapidly iterated. Yes, it's the same amount of money as Labor's proposing to spend, but I don't care where the idea came from, as long as the funding gets applied in an intelligent fashion.

Asking governments and the public service to iterate in less than a year when they're used to iterating every four years or more has got to be hard. But it's necessary. It's part of being progressive.

Joel Fitzgibbon said it well last night on Q&A — conservatives resist change and progressives embrace change. But he was incorrect in saying the Labor party is the only progressive major party. The reality is, there are conservative and progressive forces in both major parties and the Greens too.

Backing incubators makes sense because you have a better chance of collating data on which incubators are performing well than you do of collating data on which startups are performing well. 

If you have to offer equity to an incubator to join, that's a pricing event — it forces a valuation on a startup that may otherwise go unvalued for years. If that incubator needs to show government that it's adding value, then it needs to help that startup raise investment. That creates a second pricing event — you now have two valuations on the startup. Did the valuation go up or down in the course of the incubation? There's your industry data.

Outside an incubator or accelerator a startup may go many years without a third-party valuation. Is it succeeding or failing? Hard to know unless it goes for a listing or is acquired and the acquirer discloses the terms..How come you've never chosen to pursue a music startup idea given your depth of experience in that industry and all the inefficiencies and problems there are to exploit?.What's the best educational background and professional experience for a young person in the Aussie startup industry who'd like to work in venture capital?.And when we click on one more click-bait headline on Business Insider we're doing... what again?....By the way, can StartupSmart talk to the ad sales people about the Breitling video ad running on your pages this week? It's sexist and demeaning..What did SEEK get wrong when you first raised capital that you'd never do again? How has a Square Peg term sheet changed over time?.At what point is NASDAQ-listed and UK-based Atlassian no longer an Aussie company? I don't have the answer, sorry, I'm just asking the question. I couldn't find any more recent reporting on how much tax Atlassian pays and where, but according to The Australian in 2014 it only paid USD159,000 tax in Australia, vs USD3.2M in the UK.

Three others I might have expected to see in the list were SEEK, Realestate.com.au and Carsales. No longer very sexy these days but big tech businesses still based in Australia (I think)..Thanks for covering the story, but just so we're clear: Bugcrowd was *not* created over the laksas and beers Casey and I had. That wasn't the impression I intended to convey in my blog post and not what I'd want StartupSmart readers to believe. 

Casey conceived of the crowdsourced security business model, pitched the idea to me at lunch, I gave him some feedback, told him I'd help him if he needed help applying to Startmate. When Casey and I finished lunch it was still an interesting idea — a long way from a company, still less a product. But all Casey's.

Getting it from idea to successful business took Casey and the help of many awesome people — including Australian and US security industry experts, the Bugcrowd team, Casey's original co-founder Serg Belakomen, Startmate mentors, Icon Venture Partners, Paladin Capital Group, Square Peg Capital and those of us angels who invested in Bugcrowd's earlier seed round. They all deserve a lot of credit for helping get Bugcrowd to this point. Huge credit to Casey's wife and strategic counsel Viv who backed him all the way, held down the fort with a young family while Casey racked up the miles between sales, investors, conferences and home, helped him keep true to himself and purpose.

Plot a pie chart of all the hard work and clever thinking that went into making Bugcrowd and the segment represented by those laksa lunches at The Malaya wouldn't even be a micron across if the pie chart was a metre across, and my input to the company in subsequent years maybe a couple of microns, at most.

Super happy to see StartupSmart celebrate a great Aussie startup kicking arse, and absolutely no need to change headline or opening paragraphs — it doesn't matter as long as this comment stays with it. In fact, definitely don't change the photo of Casey because that had me ROFLing, thanks!.What's the differences between your SF and Wollongong operations? What's the best way to manage comms and culture between two teams on either side of the Pacific?.Thanks everyone, that was a great experience, I really enjoyed thinking about how best to answer your questions. Hope it was helpful and fun for you..Design, coding and other prof. services marketplaces seem like a naturally monopolistic thing, like job listing sites, real estate and cars. Yet for some time now in your space there's been a number of strong competitors. Do you think it eventually shakes out into one dominant player and some others competing to be a distant #2, or will it always remain a multi-player market?.what kind of customers are your least favourite?.In the biography the author describes Musk's version of taking his boys camping for the weekend: they fly up to near Crater Lake, OR in his private jet departing 8pm Friday night. When they arrive at the camping spot at midnight, the other dads help the Musks pitch their tent and get stuff squared-away. Sunday afternoon 4pm, the Musks have to fly back to LA because Musk has to get on another flight to be in NYC for Monday morning.


Yeah, totally enough time to be present, in the moment, with your kids in the bush ;-).Here's one I see all the time: spending too much time worrying about brand tweaks and marketing comms. Great brand values get built over time by ensuring customers get a great, consistent customer experience again and again. People aspire to have a brand as respected and highly-polished as Apple but fail to realise Apple had a terrible brand identity for many years. Provide a great product or service experience to customers and over time, study what customers value/don't value about that experience. Don't obsess over what your brand is or how it looks, focus on how your product or service makes customers feel..I want my son to learn the basics of programming so he knows how to apply the principles of programmatic thinking to solving a problem. That will help him avoid growing up ignorant and forced to seek a career in politics. As Tony Abbott so abundantly demonstrates, you can't make valid judgements about things you don't understand..Broede, if you needed a photo from the ASX debut event to go with the story, you've just got to ask!.Thanks mate, i know it was unintentional. I need to make a sign to hang above your desk ;-).Well done Jono and Andy, that definitely feels like a 10x better solution to a very widespread problem to me. And I know that you know you're going to get bugged about adding Stripe support so I thought I'd go for #first for your blog: please add Stripe, which is what all our BlueChilli startups use currently (though Braintree would like to change that...).Thanks Kye, great story (except for the photo). Just to be clear, I didn't intend my comments to be critical of the Startup Muster report itself (or its hard-working author Murray Hurps) when were expressing surprise at the $10M number. 


I was questioning the survey respondents, not criticising the survey. We still suffer from a lack of good data on the industry, and that hampers our ability to lobby business and government on issues that affect our industry. 


All research is welcome and I found many of the conclusions of Murray's research to be essential reading. In other industries this market data would only be available at a significant subscription cost. We're all incredibly fortunate to have access to Startup Muster data free of charge.


(New photo attached) ;-).Awesome open, honest and inspiring stuff Chris, well done. I'm going to share this with other startups I work with and with BlueChilli too. I already have my Open Water Diving certificate but I've always wanted to do a hang gliding course... hmmm....First link in this story leads to this page, not to the FT piece Kye ;-).Great tips for startup founders wanting to relate to VCs. As to the lack of a Series B round capacity in Australia's tech startup community, that's a bit of a chicken-and-the-egg: nobody's going to try raising a fund capable of making >$20M investments until there's a viable dealflow volume in Australia, and we're not there yet. It can happen, in time. But the majority of Series B rounds will need to be funded overseas until we're generating several deals that size every year, year in and year out.


<broken_record>Government and industry can accelerate that evolution by fostering the redirection of capital from primary industry and property speculation towards tech </broken_record>."plant" or "planet"? either way, I wholeheartedly agree with your point. In fact, I'd argue we're approaching a time when we stop defining not just companies but whole nations in geographic terms. Why must we be forced to share a tax base and a government with people we share nothing in common with other than locality? Why can't I pay my taxes and have direct representation in a government-in-the-cloud that then negotiates on my behalf with the nearest providers of healthcare, education, roads, etc?."Show creator Anna Reeves, a former business affair manager for cult manager for TV show Rockwiz" should that be "Show creator Anna Reeves, a former business affair manager for cult TV show Rockwiz"?

Otherwise, GO THATSTARTUPSHOW! And onya Startupsmart for all the support you've given them..Does anybody know what this program offers successful applicants? It doesn't seem to be a pitch-for-cash event. Startups are asked to pitch for funding but there's no indication of a high or low range of funding available and no info on the terms other than mention of a convertible note. It says the applicant retains IP but Hills retains ownership of the product and gets exclusive distribution..#want.Resistance is futile, Scott... Join us... Join usssss......Great result Adrian, well done!.Umm... couldn't I just do the #icebucketchallenge again instead? ;-).All media attention on the startup sector is good. It's just that some of it is more helpful than others....let's remember to link to the things we're reporting on, yeah?.thx mate.Yeah, but still, you're outside Ballina, that has advantages as well as disadvantages! God's country!


If it's any consolation I'm on the Northern Beaches of Sydney and can only get ADSL1 via a node since we're too far from the exchange for ADSL2. Our peak speed is 1Mbps, average 400Kbps and right now it's only 300Kbps.

FTTN would have been not only way faster, it was future-proofed, would have been a solution for many generations to come.


Ah well....Nice one Stacey!.Thanks for reporting my comments Kye, great article. To clarify: I wouldn't recommend buying a ticket to Delaware. Buy a ticket to San Francisco or San Jose..Oh my gard he's spent the past decade with his head in the sand and has just learned we have a startup industry in Australia. Why does supporting tech startups always seem such a good idea only when you're in opposition?


If there's a bright side, maybe this pressure might drive Turnbull out of his post-budget cave. Or it might not. My gut tells me he's going to stay in hiding until it's clear the wheels haven't fallen off Abbott and Hockey. He doesn't want any of the mud sticking on him while they're busy getting Mr and Mrs Middle Australia all riled up..Great post Bronwen. Perhaps Turnbull was just telling us what we wanted to hear all along, or perhaps he genuinely wants to deliver these reforms but is blocked by a PM and cabinet with other priorities. Either way, the result is the same: the Coalition we thought was pro-business has taken our industry and many others two steps backwards. I hope we don't have to wait too long before they take us one step forwards..The smartest guy in the prison unties the rope because he can see where the guards have left the trampoline.Thanks for giving us a voice on this issue Kye. One  small correction: BlueChilli was founded by Sebastien Eckersley-Maslin and the senior exec team already included Jeremy Paddison, Catherine Eibner and Joe Kiely before Tony Burrett and I came onboard last year. So I'm not a co-founder. I'm "Chief Growth Hacker" officially but if that term's unfamiliar "head of marketing" might be a good translation. Cheers!.Square Peg is an awesome fund and I love what they are doing (you can hear the "but" coming...)


Square Peg's investments in Canva, GoCatch, BellaBox, ScriptRock and BugCrowd are all seed or Series A size deals. Important to have but what Chandler was calling our attention to was the need for Australian investors in what comes after Series A (B, C, list, etc).



One fund (Square Peg) making a single Series B investment (Vend) doesn't yet make a viable Australian investment ecosystem. Especially since Vend is a New Zealand startup ;-).Great news! Nick is one of the most experienced and effective operators in the entire Aussie ecosystem. But who told him v-necks are a good look? ;-).Of course, there's one very good reason *not* to disclose all this — it gives you a negotiation advantage. But it's really not fair. I wonder if I have the courage to be the first to publish my 'investor pitch deck'? Easier for me, I have less to lose ;-).In this world, there are only n things you can be certain of: death, taxes, and free beer and pizza at #bluejelly! Hope to see lots of youse there..To be fair, I was a *bit* impressed. I don't think I could raise $50M myself. But we do need more $50M funds, and some $100M funds, and some $250M funds..Very worthwhile initiative, #onya @pollenizer and @bronwen. Hoping this becomes an annual thing and you get some help in building it out to 100 over time.BlueChilli equity stake varies according to the founders and the opportunity but averages around 20%. 


Complete the BlueChilli incubation process and our fund will match the third-party investment you're able to raise for your seed round and help take you to Series A. 


BlueChilli provides the product team, ChilliSource (the technology platform common to all the startups we've incubated) and a detailed, documented lean startup education program delivered by experienced mentors, designed to take an entrepreneur with no tech startup experience and make them a lean startup rockstar..Sounds great! If only you had a Safari extension, or worked with Apple Mail. I've registered to be informed when either/both those planned updates happen..I've observed that angel investors are a herd species – more ready to follow than lead. Perhaps if Australia had a few super-angels ready to lead seed rounds quickly, that might get the rest of the angel community to act faster and discourage startups from looking to the US..Simple: options need to be taxed when the holder exercises the options and shares are sold. I'll second Niki's opinion on what defines a startup and whether we really need to define a startup to decide whether to tax a share option or not. We really don't.


If that's too scary, define a startup as under a very low valuation and perhaps that will motivate startup founders to prioritise establishing an ESOP and distribute options to early hires..I can't believe nobody mentioned Bugherd, 1Password, HootSuite or Skitch!.Hmm yeah, the ATO just loves it when I think laterally....It's not that surprising given our high cost of living, average lower startup valuations and lack of employee share option plans and other non-salary compensation, such as healthcare. $70k pa is pretty hard going if you need to live in Sydney or Melbourne..Cheers Ryan!.Could be worse: could be a Salesforce hackathon - https://medium.com/hackers-and-hacking/b839268fb82d.Thanks for the write-up Stephen, it's been a long time since we last slouched over a bar together!.w00t!.That hasn't been my experience. VCs are as different as founders and startups are. I've invested in the same round as Starfish in two early-stage tech startups, Bugherd and Scriptrock. Starfish and Tony Glenning have always been supportive and constructive with the founders of those two businesses. Tony definitely brings more than just capital to the table..I think Labor's last-minute scare campaign on 457 visa workers was just terrible. Such schemes are always open to potential abuse but trying to paint skilled migration as a wholesale threat to Australian employment was reprehensible.


It's not just about number of people employed, visa programs are also about building skills we don't have a lot of here. You learn 75% of how to be a lean startup practitioner by working alongside someone who is already great at it, so every skilled startup professional we bring into Australia helps train up every local professional they work with here..Poor beknighted Joshua Stockwell never replied, but BRW's editor did. It's mean to be a temporary transition thing. Yeah, right ;-) But at least I'm finally unsubscribed..so very true!.You should have left it in, it was kind of appropriate, like "steamed" milk. But you missed the other typo in the same sentence — "livesream" :-) (Sorry, I used to be an editor)..Congratulations on the revenue Amy, did you also break even on the exercise, or was it a loss leader?.Press release at http://www.prweb.com/releases/2013/02CISSPBugcrowd/prweb10464991.htm.If you're worried about an interview going in a negative direction, take the call on your mobile or Skype instead of a landline, and if the interview begins running off the rails, you can arrange to lose the connection. Don't forget to ring back when you've collected your thoughts.


It's OK to admit you don't know something to a journalist. Better to say, "Actually, I don't know that fact/number/detail off the top of my head, could I check and get back to you in an email or a call later?" than to get it wrong and have that go to print/web for all time. Nothing a journalist likes more than taking down a big head who pretends to know everything..Almost nobody has original, unknown ideas to lose. At most founders risk inspiring their competitors to try harder to try and match your success. I think everybody knows about different marketing channels, different ways to get stuff built and different ways to fund growth, but what really helps other founders is to know what your metrics are and how your metrics have changed. 


That's what really defines whether what you're doing is succeeding or failing. How much do you pay for content marketing? How does that translate into visitors, trials and LTV? When you changed your pricing table, what happened? When you decided to no longer offer a free version, what happened?.Great post Mat, I love your idea of a "No Pussy Footing" policy and how the startup founders who've disclosed real information rather than spin are those who've seen a return on their investment in media relationships. Thanks for your ongoing support of  FLT. Exciting to see the LEEAP Project videos starting to appear, well done for bringing that together..Is there a video or slideshare version of the Zeptonics pitch available?.At www.thenewagency.com.au we're growing our team on a shoestring and every bit of office furniture we can beg, borrow or steal goes to a good home. Nothing more important on a pre-launch all-nighter than a good chair (and a good supply of Mountain Dew).Thanks Shoestring! It's great to be part of such a positive, cooperative startup ecosystem and your team do such a great job drawing us together and connecting people..Hi Alex. We'll start accepting applications to attend early in 2013. Follow us on Facebook or Twitter to be notified of when that will be..Sorry Kate, as far s we know, TED has no plans to run another international talent search for 2013, but if it happens we'll promote it well in advance to you and other members of the TEDxSydney community, on our website, on Facebook and Twitter, and in email newsletters..Just looking at your headline and Flurry's blog post. I didn't see that Flurry limited "iOS devices"  to just iPhones. If not, Flurry's "iOS" equals "iPhones, iPads and iPod Touches". iPod Touch may not make much of a blip in the volumes but iPad must..Here's the schedule Annabelle http://tedxsydney.com/assets/images/TXS12_SchedulePoster.jpg.Hi Anna, it takes a couple of weeks following the event for us to edit the videos (multi-cameras, sound editing, titles, etc) but we'll announce on TEDxSydney.com when each of the talks and performances from TEDxSydney 2012 are available to view on-demand. 

Or you can subscribe to our YouTube channel at http://www.youtube.com/TEDxSydney and you'll be notified by YouTube when they are available..Here's another great Aussie undie startup: http://alphando.com by Richard Soutter and Jonathan Tyson (and their dog Leelou). Richard's ex-Wayne Cooper and Jon's an ex-Pollenizer CTO. I'm wearing mine now and they are sooooo good..It's an exciting time for crowd-funding but no, crowd-funding's not going to replace venture capitalist funding any time soon. As this other article in Anthill Online makes clear: http://anthillonline.com/is-crowd-funding-a-viable-avenue-for-capital-raising/  significant challenges remain in the US despite new legislation and there's no way to crowd-fund in exchange for securities in Australia..Love your enthusiasm Johnny but I don't think Pearing are accepting applications in the comments field of an online news story ;-).Certainly not Troy! You don't have to meet all the criteria, just any one. We'd encourage you to apply ASAP. The best way to find out if you're what TED is looking for is to apply. Good luck!  ^aj.That's great to hear Thibaut, wishing you best of luck with your internship application. Please let me know if you are successful and we can meet when you are in Sydney. Bon chance!.want..Creating a workplace culture and environment that encourages young, single employees to stay at work longer isn't anything new (read: Douglas Coupland's Microserfs about Microsoft in 1995 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microserfs).

Lack of work/life balance is one major downside, another is the tendency to build products for customers like yourself — if you live all your life in a Google bubble, how can you ever truly  know what mainstream consumers want and need from your next product?

I think Google+ and Google Wave are both great examples of that — products built by teams who live at Google, not outside, in the real world.

Google's hits: Search, AdWords and Gmail, built largely before the Googleplex became hermetically sealed. GMaps: built by a team later acquired by Google..It would also be great to hear any success stories from instructors who've found a great job through PilatesScene..I love 321Water, we gave them away to attendees at last year's TEDxSydney conference and turned a potential plastic waste recycling issue into a fantastic re-usable portable water solution for everyone who attended (not to mention a great branding opportunity for a sponsor). 321Water couldn't be easier to work with, the product is available in small runs, and is really pretty cheap compared to the usual conference promo giveaways you use once and chuck away..all you need now is forward and back and you've got yourself a location-based game ;-).Actually, from very early on, Yahoo! used third-party search engines such as Alta Vista, Inktomi and Google to deliver additional search results. So when Yahoo! used Google, users were getting the same search result they'd get from Google, plus an extra sample of hand-curated content supplied by Yahoo!'s surfteam. Despite this, user's *perception* was that the search results they got on Google were higher quality when in fact they were often identical..Thanks Saul, will check that out..yeah, i have that already, it's handy too..Good on you Mal, thanks for the feedback!



(briefly, from an iPhone)
+61414987069 (Sydney)
+1 (650) 394-5197 (US)
alanjones@doingwords.com
Twitter, Skype, everything else: bigyahu.i'm prepared to kill the animal. i don't take it lightly. i had to kill a chicken called Sandra earlier this year and did my research on youtube (amazing number of videos on the most humane methods). 

but when it comes to larger animals and harder techniques, i'm just not the best man for the job. 

i'd like the animal to be killed as swiftly and humanely as possible and there are others much more capable of doing that than me, with better tools. i'm prepared to take the animal to the chopping block, sharpen the knife, clean up the mess, etc.

i'm not sure why Zukey is telling the press of his decision, unless he's still desperately seeking the approval of others. and since he apparently spends so much time at work, i'm wondering which conference room at FBHQ will be repurposed for slaughtering. somewhere in HR, I bet...

"are those cable guides in that meeting table?"
"no, those are blood gutters."
"aha, so those are?..."
"oh, sorry, they slaughtered a goat in here when i told them you were staying for lunch."  .Congratulations Anthill, this is the first incubator I know of anywhere in the world with a pool, gym and cinema room!.Nice mention inserted there re: Anthill's own give-away James ;-).One lesson from getting a story published on Anthill: make sure it includes a short blurb about you at the end, with a link to more of your stuff ;-).That's such a funny name for a big lump of steel, who could resist? Great venture to support in the first round of Awesome Foundation grants, well done committee..I dunno Damo, maybe they should save all the pain and heartache and just give all their customers a discount voucher for a better product and shut the doors? ;-).Great story Jonathan, thanks for sharing, particularly the costs and results..Oh, hohoho. Say, you should really try your hand at comedy scriptwriting. We'd miss you here on Techcrunch but the rest of the world really needs to hear this material..I decided a while ago to limit my LinkedIn connections to people I've worked with or for. This way I can show prospective clients who I am and who I can call on to get stuff done. It took a while to delete all the connections I had that didn't fall into this category (and there are some I still haven't deleted) but it helps.

Now when I get an unsolicited connection from someone I don't know I ask them to connect with me on Twitter instead. I've had a few good business leads come thru Twitter in the past year and it's easier to ignore people who just want to spam me than it is on LinkedIn.

Try it out....Even though it's modern history, Monroe, Sinatra, the Brat Pack, the Kennedys have already passed into legend, facts, secrets and rumours all blurring together into myth. That makes it possible to riff off their stories as if we're reading about Arthurian times, but still what's missing is the perspective of the observer — what character can an author choose who can observe and comment on these events? Who gets access to every interaction between the characters without being involved in them too? Choosing a dog was genius. Making it such a witty and intelligent dog is great writing..I'd comment but I note you're using Disqus so I'm no longer sure where my comments might end up ;-).yay! now please add men's shoe styles to your catalogue. especially casual and trainers. i think i speak for most of the men in sydney when i say we're every bit as fetishy about our shoes as women are..Oh yay, this is much better than a Fluid app, thanks Greg!.Great point re: A4 chip. Also 2x low-power 128 DDR SDRAM chips for faster processing, lower power consumption. And while Facetime fails to excite me,  I can't wait to see what the app developer community is able to do with front and back-facing cameras. Remember how all the spec nerds were disappointed with the measly camera in the 3GS? And now the 3GS is the most popular model camera on Flickr? It's all in the apps..Hi Jackie,

Melissa says there's a number of good studios in the Sutherland Shire but it's a big Shire so you might want to check http://www.pilatessource.com.au for studios closest to you. Disclosure: pilatessource.com.au is Melissa's new startup, but I wrote this blog post last year and we didn't start the directory until this year it so it wasn't intended to drum up enquiries for the business. Hope that's OK.

Cheers,

- alan.Scoopler's down. Damn, you have too many readers....Thanks for the tips Stephen, they're all great advice, especially the toenails..Helpful blog post Kim. Hmmm does Australia really need yet another real estate classifieds business? I've lost count of the number of incumbents. And this one doesn't appear to be bringing anything new to the table. $2M is a lot to invest in something so apparently me-too..Congrats on the AU launch Nestoria. I knew something involving @freyfogle would have big international plans. And the Australian housing market is still growing strong despite the tough economic conditions elsewhere. Smart time to arrive in AU..Ooh, that'd be cool fun Ryan, count me in..Update: over the weekend just past, fellow Trailwalker Tony Burrett and I tested the Nuun tablets on a tough 30km overnight hike in the Budawang ranges.

The tablets worked like a charm and tasted great, just like water with a tiny dash of citrus fruit. They also travelled really well in pill form, nice and compact and easy to pack.

I also tested a pair of Linebreak compression shorts and a Linebreak compression top. Both performed as well as the Skinz brand product I've used before, and they're cheaper.

Photos of the weekend's hike <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/bigyahu/sets/72157623622359552/">here</a>..Great post Lloyd. I'm a switcher, and don't regret it.

I switched from journalism to PR the first time because it was the late 1980s, greed was good, and most PR people earned more than most journalists.

I switched back from journalism to PR because as a journalist, I was sick of people pretending I was a demi-god visionary who knew more about the future of the industry I covered than anyone actually working in it. Like many, I thought the industry really cared about my opinion, when really they only cared if they could influence my opinion.

I left PR when I realised I would always be held accountable for the results I achieved for my clients, even though the results I achieved for my clients were so influenced by random factors outside my control that my worst work was often my most successful, and vise-versa.

I could have gone back to journalism but the interwebs beckoned, and with it, the opportunity to create not just new content but a new medium for it to be created in.

However, much of the work I've done since has been so close to journalism and public relations, particularly my work in social media. But what's been different has been the ability to communicate with an audience both one-to-many (as in a blog post) and one-to-one (as in a messageboard) or both at the same time (as in Twitter).

There's an ancient distrust of ex-PR people in journalism, and an ancient respect for ex-journalists in PR but that's the only barrier to switching and it's legacy code — no longer makes any sense today.

There's no significant difference between journalism and public relations now. 

Neither profession is very often able to write or say what they think, both professions have an additional agenda or two in the back of their minds when communicating, both professions are held accountable. Neither is able to define the scope or composition of their audience anymore. And both have experienced a collapse in the centre of the bell curve graphing salary against number of salary earners in their industry..Could this be the biggest mass delusion in the history of the technology industry? Have any of these carriers successfully collaborated on any software development platform or product in the past? .Speaking of integration with other platforms, could I encourage you to integrate with the accounting platform Xero? You can read up on their API here http://blog.xero.com/developer/. They have a bunch of good partners already integrated and if you read about the kinds of partners they're interested in (http://blog.xero.com/developer/opportunities/) you guys fit the bill - timesheeting, job management, CRM!

Converting an estimate into an invoice and getting it paid is unfortunately just the beginning for most of us — then we need to account for job-related expenses, contractor payments, and taxes. For those of us in the Second World, exchange rates mean US$6/mth is a bigger cost, relatively speaking. I haven't signed up for a paid Ballpark account yet because it's not yet delivering enough of the pipeline to make that US$6 worthwhile. Integrate with my accounting software and I'll be one happy paying customer! .I'd second Joseph's feedback - the air mail look is dating rapidly. I saw a presentation by a Google UX designer who'd been showing icons to kids and none of them recognised the old rotary dial phone icon as a phone. Similarly, many of my clients have never sent or received an airmail letter — they are an anachronism from a bygone age. My clients will be left wondering if perhaps I'm running a barbershop on the side.

Plus, the airmail theme clashes terribly with my own company brand. As much as I enjoy whimsical design, I don't like it when it makes my own branding look bad.

I think the best solution would be to allow us to choose from a library of estimate/invoice themes, and allow us to specify colours for each object/text in the template.

...also, the disqus plug-in is majorly broken if you try and click on 'Like' on someone else's comment, it asks you to login, then serves you the whole blog page in the pop-up. Whoa!.Good on you for opening up about it Lee, you have nothing to lose and everything to gain by learning to accommodate it publicly. It's already part of your public persona, it's just that now it has a name.

I've experienced bipolar symptoms sometimes in the past though not yet for more than one cycle. 

I'm going to start reading your new blog to learn more. If there's anything I can find to contribute, I'll let you know.....however, if you want to optimise your madness (rather than end it) you can use www.perkler.com!.Good on you for being relaxed about it, but yes, it was a big issue  
for a lot of people if Twitter search is anything to go by http://search.twitter.com/search?q=%23virginblue.Hi Joanne, I'm OK with the micropatronage model and not concerned  
about your own implementation, but I anticipate people considering  
supporting you with a micropatronage might want answers to the same  
questions I've asked, and now they have them. I hope it goes well for  
you..i was able to open comments again by turning comments on in each post where they'd been closed (there's a field for that about 2/3rds down the post editing page.).Definitely! Diversification is the best way to go in almost everything. Diversify, evolve, repeat..Cheers Ned, I meant to include Domainr too. Thanks for reminding me.  
Note the correct url is domai.nr not domainr.com, and that highlights  
an interesting issue with domains that include part of the brand name  
in the TLD (the part of the domain that includes the ".com" or ".biz"  
or ".net") — it's harder for consumers to remember them. Del.icio.us  
has changed to Delicious.com for that reason.

Though they're of-the-moment now, I think they'll be very five-years- 
ago in five years' time.

Domai.nr is really good at finding potential brand names in the rarer  
small nation TLDs like ".ne" and ".nr" but I would recommend steering  
clear of them unless you really have no alternative..(Sorry Graham/Gregan for transposing your names earlier, now corrected.)

Great point Gregan: the opportunity is now there to interact with the ad. It's not something we've really seen since interactive TV and now the consumer has a smart phone, which is much better than a remote control with a few coloured buttons on it.

It's taken at least a decade for the marketing industry to learn how to do great work with ad banners and online video. Can we hope to see a few great campaigns in AR in, what, 2020? Or is there an equivalent of Moore's Law that applies to the marketing industry's ability to adapt to new marketing media? 

...and if so, are they getting faster or slower to adapt every 18mths? ;-).Thanks Bill, really good point about the price of print newspaper  
subs, they have been very low for a long time and always being offered  
with discounts. I think/hope the future of long-form investigative  
journalism is in weekly/monthly print magazines and the video podcast  
format.

For the regular daily news, I would like to be able to subscribe to  
the news agencies directly and just cut out the middle man. I can  
probably assemble my own daily news much more efficiently with a  
recommendation algorithm and crowd-sourced tagging/rating. And at  
lower cost than Rupert does by paying a journalist to sit at a news  
desk..Thanks for the input Rob, you're right, it's just an address book. If  
you actually need a CRM there are better solutions.

I think some people are talked into CRM platforms when they don't  
really need them. And Salesforce is powerful but it's hard to find a  
more difficult web platform to learn. It's the MYOB of CRM.

If you're a Mac user your Address Book is really closely integrated  
with everything else on your Mac (and iPhone) and it can be really  
handy to have info like when/where you met this contact, who their  
colleagues are, etc. And you don't really need a CRM platform for that.

Cheers!.Mainly we tell each other what amazing legendary geniuses and sex gods  
we are. That sort of ego-boosting is just not going to withstand the  
critical eye of a woman at the table. You wouldn't even need to say  
anything, one wry smile and our self-esteem would crumble to dust..Thanks for stopping by Greg, and for taking the feedback  
constructively, as it was intended. Generally I'm a big fan of your  
team's work. Vivid and ABC Pool are great (though ABC really needs to  
commit more effort to Pool before it gets going properly.) Cheers! -  
alan.It arrived yesterday, thanks Polar Rose. When I have a moment I'll upload a pic..You're welcome, Anonymous Bizmore-Person ;-) I'll try to contribute  
something more soon. You could do a better job of prompting me to do  
that: instead of emailing me to say, "something has changed on the  
topics you're monitoring on Bizmore, click here to see what it is" you  
could email me to tell me exactly what has changed, and invite me to  
respond directly via email *or* browser..Thanks Rai, good stuff! Well, by all reports, Errol Flynn was a bit  
dastardly in his attitude towards women, so maybe we should choose a  
different patron for a daughter's list?

I don't think there's anything to remove from the list for fathers  
with daughters, though there may be things to add to it. Daughters may  
need to draft their own list of things to teach their fathers too. In  
my limited experience of observing my friends (I have no sisters)  
fathers tend to under-estimate and over-protect their daughters..Thanks Katie, and oh, totally, many of these apply to Dads-with-girls  
too. Manly hugs to Simon from me..Cheers Jaz! Careful, a knot in yo' shizzle can be a world o' hurtin' ;-).Yeah: buy a Mac - you won't be alone in doing it! And these days, Macs are Intel-powered too..Yay! Go Anna! :) We had such a great time up on the farm. You and your family are such a source of light and warmth and energy we could put a veggie patch in a room with no windows and they'd grow like crazy. It was really inspiring to hang out with you.

Great to see your blog take its first steps. I've been doing mine for years and it's still crap, but some people read it and that's all I need as reward. Start with that goal and it's hard to be disappointed. I've subscribed to your RSS feed, so there — you have your first subscriber!

I'll email some more tips later on tomorrow; things you should consider adding/changing to your WordPress setup. But you're off to a cracking start and everything you're doing now can be carried on as you make changes - no need to wait until it's all perfect.

Big love to youse all!.Yes, my son. I am also the LIGHT and the WAY. Follow me, and we shall go persecute some unbelievers....Great job they did of taking a photo of the shark too. Not a prickle to be seen. The frickin' spikes are on its frickin' back, fer cryin' out loud.."Contemplate"? Who contemplates buying iPhone apps? ;-) What are you paying yourself? I'd have thought a UX designer could claim app expenses as research? Cool app though, thanks!.That's a really good link Steven, thanks. It prompts another blog post, along the lines of: "if you can't get to journalists, how can you make sure they come find you?"

Anyone who's been an Editor (as you have) still remembers how they'd like to be related to. And anyone whose public profile is important to their success (say, an analyst at Forrester) is still engaged in media relations..LOL! That's very clever HH, thanks!.Sooner or later, late at night, he'll start to hear Little Gav, telling him to murder people. Just sayin..Good on you Elias, you won't be disappointed..if you're on OSX just choose the "PDF" button on the left hand side of any Print dialogue box - the opposite corner to the "Print" button. From there you'll get a pop-up menu and "Save as PDF" is one of the options..Thx Katie! We've all been there, haven't we?.wow, i added Facebook Connect commenting to my blog with Disqus! V.Cool!.So far, I've sent two invitations and had zero redemptions. I sent the invites to fellow Mobile Monday regulars so either they're already using mHits or the invitation offer wasn't compelling enough to convert known mobile geeks... let's hope the former. I'll try a couple more invites. It would be good to receive an email reminder after X days if the invite hasn't been redeemed yet.

I'm still waiting to use mHits in the real world, for two reasons:

I occasionally owe a mate money or vise versa and usually use PayPal to settle that up, for a couple of reasons. It's two-way, meaning if I owe a mate money, I can wait until he remembers to send me a request for money. And it works with multiple bank accounts (I have a few). And everybody's heard of PayPal, even luddite mates. The fees can suck though. I'll try mHits the next time I need to settle a mate debt but only if I remember. I don't know how, but mHits needs to find a way to stay in my face a little more until I'm established as a regular user. Email newsletter? Targeted offers and prizes?...

Second reason: I live too far north and work too far south of your current Sydney coffeeshops to pay for a coffee using mHits. Once you've got Surry Hills and Crows Nest/Naremburn at even 80% coverage, I'm all over you like a shot.

Yes, mHITS is SMS-driven and online banking is on desktop browsers but come on, there's such a thing as being too far ahead of the curve. Henry Ford wasn't actually very successful with the "any colour you like as long as it's black" strategy in the end. If the customer wants blue, sooner or later, you're gonna need a blue model. 

Likewise, 99% of P2P transactions happen in a desktop browser. Yes, there is a bright future for mobile, but desktop transactions aren't going to go away. Indeed, they may remain 75% or more of the transaction market. Really want to lock yourself out of that?

And the other huge benefit that desktop P2P has over SMS-only P2P is that a desktop platform comes with an opportunity to market cheaply and effectively, both to registered users (to remind them to use the service) and new visitors. It's pretty clear that marketing an SMS-only service to consumers involves lots of traditional media spend before you get brand awareness, and you don't have the budget for that.

Yes, the logged-in page is relatively light and browser-compatible, but it's also as fun and as friendly as online banking circa 1999. It's a real jarring clash with what you have on your visitor page.

Does light, fast and compatible have to look fugly? Look at where we are now, on Flickr. Light, fast, compatible, and not fugly. I know you can do better than this. Or if not, I can introduce you to somebody who can do it better for you :).Go Peter! Well done! I'll be fronting up again for Sydney in August,  
hope to see you on the trail!.The only way in which all agencies are they same is they all make big, soft, slow-moving targets for my flaming arrows ;-) I don't really hate them, they're just so easy to hit.

See you round!.Hi Pauline, sadly I think the steam has run out of STIRR in Australia but there are other similar events that will make it to Melbourne this year. Speak to <a href="http://lachstock.com.au/" target="_blank">Lachlan Hardy</a> about <a href="http://webjam.com.au/" target="_blank">Webjam.com.au</a> and lobby for a Melbourne event in '09. It's a riot!.you would say that - you are a bot..no, previous version of Macbook Pro 15" with old 15" Samsung external monitor to new version of Macbook Pro 15" with Apple LED Cinema Display :) I can dream, can't i?.Cheers Peter, great suggestions, though I'd rate Twittelator over  
Twitter and Midomi over Shazam..Well, that feeling's been replaced by another that goes something like, "OMFG, it's 2am Sunday morning, I've been working since I said goodnight to my wife at 10pm and I have a day full of client meetings starting in seven hours!"

On that score, it's pretty much even!.On York Street near Wynyard, about a block south. There's another one on Oxford St too I think, near Taylor Sq..Oh, that sounds terrible Lori, what a carnival of jolly clowns they are. They believe they can plaster the ads all over the page because they're giving you free web services, but they misunderstand the relationship with their customers — without you using your MySpace page and interacting with your friends, they'd have no advertising space to sell. Somebody there needs a big whack with the Humble Stick. Thanks for commenting!.As a lawyer friend likes to say, "There's nothing to stop anyone from suing you for any stupid reason they like. What's important is: is there a chance they could win?" I'm no lawyer but my opinion is you'd be safe in the grounds that the use was satirical - it's pretty clear you're not actually pretending to be Rumsfeld. Unless someone signs up <i>as</i> Rumsfeld, and in that case, Rumsfeld would have to show that you could reasonably know that the impersonator wasn't in fact Rumsfeld.

When News Corp bought MySpace I was the first person to create a MySpace profile as Rupert Murdoch. Many have since created a Rupert_M or a Rupert Murdoch2007 etc. So far, no law suit that i know of, not even a take down.

Presumably (a) they don't really care; (b) the potential negative PR would really bite you; and (c) they probably can't win..[this message brought to you by Ye Olde Oxford Dictionary, Online Edition]

Yeah, fair cop, guv. I'm old enough to know better..onya Jane, thanks for speaking out..i think an emu snuck into the coop!.Thanks Ms Pris!.Seesmic video reply from Disqus..Good on you for leading the dissent on this mate! I think it's winnable, they just need to have it made clear that the Howard years are over and we no longer accept politically expedient but morally wrong decisions from our leaders..Don't you hate that? You sacrifice the best years/brain cells of your life and find you've just gone a little bit too hard, a little bit too long.Hi Diane! Yes, we now know Anthea, Michael and Benjamin very well indeed, after spending a few weeks with them in Tabo and then travelling together to Ladakh. Our son Alec and Ben became great mates and you are very fortunate to have such a lovely family. We met thru Russell, who arranged our trip there for us. In fact, our original intention was to work on the Eco-House project with Anthea and Mike. I'll email you some photos of your family separately - hope that helps you feel connected to them until they return to Australia.

Thanks for stopping by my blog! .I knew it wasn't easy being Alan Jones but I didn't realise it could also be hard being Bill Bennett. The human address space just isn't long enough. Do we need mandatory middle names? Perhaps we should just go by alphanum strings (between 9-11 characters, no punctuation, upper and lower case and at least two numbers etc.)

Not only do I remember Compuserve and eWorld, I miss eWorld terribly! It had some very innovative features I loved, particularly in its chat events (does anybody do chat events anymore?)

Love your <a href="http://www.billbennett.co.nz/dismabiguation.html">disambiguation page</a>, especially deliberate mis-spelling of the HTML page name ;-) I would write something about all the other Alan Joneses out there if I weren't afraid of one in particular suing me for all the things I'd like to say about him..Thanks Kelly! I think so too!.That's very sad as well as incredibly infuriating Tony! What a completely craptastic service they offer. .Thanks Bill, great to know. I'd say this reflects a broader consumer  
movement away from mainstream labels and mainstream artists towards  
the kind of music now more likely to be found on vinyl. Would be great  
to see a vinyl record industry doing, say, 50 million in sales  
annually worldwide - big enough to provide a healthy business for  
professional operators without being big enough to allow the big,  
clumsy labels a way in..Yeah, true, "marketing genii" was a bit derogative. Sorry.

I meant to lump together all the different decision-makers involved in creating advertising professionally these days to keep the story rolling along, but (a) that's part of the problem; and (b) in that lump of genii there's only one or two people right at the coal face doing anything creative, one of whom would be you, Sacha..Not at all Julian, I think you're doing a great job, keep it up! I enjoyed your explanation of "social currency" today too. Cheers!.I just replaced the WordPress commenting on this blog with <a href="http://www.disqus.com">disqus.com</a> because my testing on other blogs has shown that the discussion threading and automatic emailing of responses to comments drives more comments, more pageviews, and more goodness in general. But that means Callum's helpful comment made prior to the conversion was lost. So here it is again, enjoy:
--------------------------------------------
True. PayPal's big killer is the convenience. Sign up, take credit cards. It's pretty much that easy. Most other services have you jump through too many hoops. That and the popularity, everyone's on PayPal.

However, as a serious business solution, it's problematic. Check <a href="http://paypalsucks.com/" title="PayPal horror stories at PayPalSucks.com" rel="nofollow">PayPalSucks.com</a> for some horror stories. Particularly their appeal process (or total lack thereof). I take my money out of PayPal as soon as it arrives, avoid the risks.

- <a href="http://www.callum-macdonald.com/">Callum</a>.As one of our more prominent local startups it hurts to see it go down in such a chaotic fashion. I find it hard to think of ways Nik could have handled this worse without actually crashing a supercar full of doped-up super-models with a trunk full of unregistered firearms... and that would have taken more capital to achieve. To see him just appear again as if nothing had happened as a contributor to Techcrunch is especially surprising but I don't think it's sustainable. You can't report on the industry with as many unresolved, public credibility issues as Nik has. It'd be like the WSJ hiring Jeffrey Skilling ex-Enron to cover the energy sector..Good question! Best directed to Quickflix though!.Hi Nigel,

The OSX drivers should have been on the installer disc you got with the MP600R - mine were. But you can also download them from the Canon site:
http://support-au.canon.com.au/EN/search?v%3aproject=ABS-EN&binning-state=model%3d%3dPIXMA%20MP600R%0amenu%3d%3dDownload%0aos%3d%3dMac%20OS%20X&



 .Thanks :).and you are concise, insightful and correct. i bet you don't get that often..yah well, if i could just get off the puter and drop you round some apple iphone earbuds, sorry bout dat!.Thanks Matthew, but gee, am I the only one confused about it? I haven't spoken to a single industry person who was able to appreciate where the competition ends and the museum archiving begins.

I'm going to submit the disqus.com email notification I received about your comment on this blog post as an entry to both the archive and the ninemsn competition...

...if I can get your permission to send it in!

...you have a category for irony, surely?.Dude! (a) you read my blog post, i am honoured! (b) full disclosure for other readers: Stennie started at Yahoo! about the same time as I did - he remembers those days like I do - full of wonder, discovery and late, late nights.

LMAO: "VRML is an artform. Let the system catch up to the expression..." Yah, whatever happened to Jaron Lanier anyway? I guess we're still waiting for the system to catch up, or for the audience to give a damn...

Thx for dropping by dude!.She was touched! Aww! Well, now you have to remember it next year, and the next, and the next... Or she'll think you don't like her anymore! Ahhhh! ;-).I'd have thought Canada in particular would be a great potential market for mobile software developers with great ideas for corporate apps. How many mobile software developers must RIM have burned off over the years? How many would like to stick it to RIM by building something kickbutt for the iPhone? Same time zone, same language (just about, eh?), I just don't get it. Maybe you're right?.Well, yes and no, I think. Yahoo7 doesn't really have that big an investment in product teams and technology. Yes, they're a very different sort of developer and producer than those to be found at ninemsn, but if Microhoo can borg all of the Yahoo! products for the US, the .AU versions will all just borg along with them.

As for 7 vs 9, Microhoo will probably find that 7 is the better partner here than 9, which seems to be much less interested in the future potential of online/TV integration since it became the favourite kicking ball of private equity funds and sons of media moguls in the last year or so..Thanks for the comments Marc, you've set the record straight on many of my criticisms. I will set aside some hard drive space, plug the Elgato in, and give the new recommendations feature a more thorough work out. In the meantime, I should make it clear to all readers that I'd still recommend you choose an IceTV-equipped PVR or USB tuner over a Foxtel STB and subscription..you're an ideas man! tipping comp or fantasy league comp for the revenue model, ya think?.Thanks Alex. I haven't tried benchmarking Amazon S3 against a competing service, so if it's cheaper for you even with the VISA surcharge, that's great. Yeah, I'm paying 3.4% according to my bank's terms page. Maybe I should shop around for a new credit card instead of a new hosting provider? ;-).come on over and play sometime, would be interesting to see if we can load one itunes rental movie onto two iphones. i assume its possible as the usual terms are up to five devices and so far its only the macbook, appletv and iphone....Thanks Shai! I did comment - I think I was the first to comment on your post - but it looks like my comment's still pending approval from you :-(.no wucks, i feel your pain! but repeat this mantra "any homepage is better than no homepage". homepage redesign can easily swallow way too much time. better to iterate regularly and start making changes based on studying how users respond to those changes. anyway, you're welcome!.Please don't be upset Nick, after all, I did say I admired their policy of open disclosure. I just think there's a lot of reasons why you want as many people trying your software as possible during alpha testing. And many potential users will be put off by adverse comments - fair or unfair - posted to their forums when they appear automatically on the homepage. I say keep the forums, keep the open disclosure, but maybe keep the forums off the homepage until the product settles down a little bit and more of the comments are positive..Yep, i think i like this..