How do you recommend other social enterprise founders pitch their startups to Australian tech investors? We're infamous for being focused on revenue over user growth, on profit over social impact or brand values..Never take the clock necklace off.."Start small" is easy. "Move fast" is the hard bit. I like Turnbull and Roy's readiness to admit that some of what they're proposing for the startup industry is a first attempt. They're embracing risk and saying, "we won't get it right the first time but it's important that we start, and as long as we're able to iterate and learn from experience, support programs will get better".

It may not have been sold as such, but this is an iteration — they tested $8M, heard us say it wasn't enough, and they've added more. They rapidly iterated. Yes, it's the same amount of money as Labor's proposing to spend, but I don't care where the idea came from, as long as the funding gets applied in an intelligent fashion.

Asking governments and the public service to iterate in less than a year when they're used to iterating every four years or more has got to be hard. But it's necessary. It's part of being progressive.

Joel Fitzgibbon said it well last night on Q&A — conservatives resist change and progressives embrace change. But he was incorrect in saying the Labor party is the only progressive major party. The reality is, there are conservative and progressive forces in both major parties and the Greens too.

Backing incubators makes sense because you have a better chance of collating data on which incubators are performing well than you do of collating data on which startups are performing well. 

If you have to offer equity to an incubator to join, that's a pricing event — it forces a valuation on a startup that may otherwise go unvalued for years. If that incubator needs to show government that it's adding value, then it needs to help that startup raise investment. That creates a second pricing event — you now have two valuations on the startup. Did the valuation go up or down in the course of the incubation? There's your industry data.

Outside an incubator or accelerator a startup may go many years without a third-party valuation. Is it succeeding or failing? Hard to know unless it goes for a listing or is acquired and the acquirer discloses the terms..How come you've never chosen to pursue a music startup idea given your depth of experience in that industry and all the inefficiencies and problems there are to exploit?.What's the best educational background and professional experience for a young person in the Aussie startup industry who'd like to work in venture capital?.And when we click on one more click-bait headline on Business Insider we're doing... what again?....By the way, can StartupSmart talk to the ad sales people about the Breitling video ad running on your pages this week? It's sexist and demeaning..What did SEEK get wrong when you first raised capital that you'd never do again? How has a Square Peg term sheet changed over time?.At what point is NASDAQ-listed and UK-based Atlassian no longer an Aussie company? I don't have the answer, sorry, I'm just asking the question. I couldn't find any more recent reporting on how much tax Atlassian pays and where, but according to The Australian in 2014 it only paid USD159,000 tax in Australia, vs USD3.2M in the UK.

Three others I might have expected to see in the list were SEEK, Realestate.com.au and Carsales. No longer very sexy these days but big tech businesses still based in Australia (I think)..Thanks for covering the story, but just so we're clear: Bugcrowd was *not* created over the laksas and beers Casey and I had. That wasn't the impression I intended to convey in my blog post and not what I'd want StartupSmart readers to believe. 

Casey conceived of the crowdsourced security business model, pitched the idea to me at lunch, I gave him some feedback, told him I'd help him if he needed help applying to Startmate. When Casey and I finished lunch it was still an interesting idea — a long way from a company, still less a product. But all Casey's.

Getting it from idea to successful business took Casey and the help of many awesome people — including Australian and US security industry experts, the Bugcrowd team, Casey's original co-founder Serg Belakomen, Startmate mentors, Icon Venture Partners, Paladin Capital Group, Square Peg Capital and those of us angels who invested in Bugcrowd's earlier seed round. They all deserve a lot of credit for helping get Bugcrowd to this point. Huge credit to Casey's wife and strategic counsel Viv who backed him all the way, held down the fort with a young family while Casey racked up the miles between sales, investors, conferences and home, helped him keep true to himself and purpose.

Plot a pie chart of all the hard work and clever thinking that went into making Bugcrowd and the segment represented by those laksa lunches at The Malaya wouldn't even be a micron across if the pie chart was a metre across, and my input to the company in subsequent years maybe a couple of microns, at most.

Super happy to see StartupSmart celebrate a great Aussie startup kicking arse, and absolutely no need to change headline or opening paragraphs — it doesn't matter as long as this comment stays with it. In fact, definitely don't change the photo of Casey because that had me ROFLing, thanks!.What's the differences between your SF and Wollongong operations? What's the best way to manage comms and culture between two teams on either side of the Pacific?.Thanks everyone, that was a great experience, I really enjoyed thinking about how best to answer your questions. Hope it was helpful and fun for you..Design, coding and other prof. services marketplaces seem like a naturally monopolistic thing, like job listing sites, real estate and cars. Yet for some time now in your space there's been a number of strong competitors. Do you think it eventually shakes out into one dominant player and some others competing to be a distant #2, or will it always remain a multi-player market?.what kind of customers are your least favourite?.In the biography the author describes Musk's version of taking his boys camping for the weekend: they fly up to near Crater Lake, OR in his private jet departing 8pm Friday night. When they arrive at the camping spot at midnight, the other dads help the Musks pitch their tent and get stuff squared-away. Sunday afternoon 4pm, the Musks have to fly back to LA because Musk has to get on another flight to be in NYC for Monday morning.


Yeah, totally enough time to be present, in the moment, with your kids in the bush ;-).Here's one I see all the time: spending too much time worrying about brand tweaks and marketing comms. Great brand values get built over time by ensuring customers get a great, consistent customer experience again and again. People aspire to have a brand as respected and highly-polished as Apple but fail to realise Apple had a terrible brand identity for many years. Provide a great product or service experience to customers and over time, study what customers value/don't value about that experience. Don't obsess over what your brand is or how it looks, focus on how your product or service makes customers feel..I want my son to learn the basics of programming so he knows how to apply the principles of programmatic thinking to solving a problem. That will help him avoid growing up ignorant and forced to seek a career in politics. As Tony Abbott so abundantly demonstrates, you can't make valid judgements about things you don't understand..Broede, if you needed a photo from the ASX debut event to go with the story, you've just got to ask!.Thanks mate, i know it was unintentional. I need to make a sign to hang above your desk ;-).Well done Jono and Andy, that definitely feels like a 10x better solution to a very widespread problem to me. And I know that you know you're going to get bugged about adding Stripe support so I thought I'd go for #first for your blog: please add Stripe, which is what all our BlueChilli startups use currently (though Braintree would like to change that...).Thanks Kye, great story (except for the photo). Just to be clear, I didn't intend my comments to be critical of the Startup Muster report itself (or its hard-working author Murray Hurps) when were expressing surprise at the $10M number. 


I was questioning the survey respondents, not criticising the survey. We still suffer from a lack of good data on the industry, and that hampers our ability to lobby business and government on issues that affect our industry. 


All research is welcome and I found many of the conclusions of Murray's research to be essential reading. In other industries this market data would only be available at a significant subscription cost. We're all incredibly fortunate to have access to Startup Muster data free of charge.


(New photo attached) ;-).Awesome open, honest and inspiring stuff Chris, well done. I'm going to share this with other startups I work with and with BlueChilli too. I already have my Open Water Diving certificate but I've always wanted to do a hang gliding course... hmmm....First link in this story leads to this page, not to the FT piece Kye ;-).Great tips for startup founders wanting to relate to VCs. As to the lack of a Series B round capacity in Australia's tech startup community, that's a bit of a chicken-and-the-egg: nobody's going to try raising a fund capable of making >$20M investments until there's a viable dealflow volume in Australia, and we're not there yet. It can happen, in time. But the majority of Series B rounds will need to be funded overseas until we're generating several deals that size every year, year in and year out.


broken_record Government and industry can accelerate that evolution by fostering the redirection of capital from primary industry and property speculation towards tech broken_record."plant" or "planet"? either way, I wholeheartedly agree with your point. In fact, I'd argue we're approaching a time when we stop defining not just companies but whole nations in geographic terms. Why must we be forced to share a tax base and a government with people we share nothing in common with other than locality? Why can't I pay my taxes and have direct representation in a government-in-the-cloud that then negotiates on my behalf with the nearest providers of healthcare, education, roads, etc?."Show creator Anna Reeves, a former business affair manager for cult manager for TV show Rockwiz" should that be "Show creator Anna Reeves, a former business affair manager for cult TV show Rockwiz"?

Otherwise, GO THATSTARTUPSHOW! And onya Startupsmart for all the support you've given them..Does anybody know what this program offers successful applicants? It doesn't seem to be a pitch-for-cash event. Startups are asked to pitch for funding but there's no indication of a high or low range of funding available and no info on the terms other than mention of a convertible note. It says the applicant retains IP but Hills retains ownership of the product and gets exclusive distribution..#want.Resistance is futile, Scott... Join us... Join usssss......Great result Adrian, well done!.Umm... couldn't I just do the #icebucketchallenge again instead? ;-).All media attention on the startup sector is good. It's just that some of it is more helpful than others....let's remember to link to the things we're reporting on, yeah?.thx mate.Yeah, but still, you're outside Ballina, that has advantages as well as disadvantages! God's country!